EtherClue: Digital investigation of attacks on Ethereum
smart contracts
Simon Joseph Aquilinaa, Fran Casinoc,d, Mark Vellaa,∗, Joshua Ellula,b, Constantinos
Patsakisc,d
aDepartment of Computer Science, University of Malta, Msida, Malta
bCentre for Distributed Ledger Technologies, University of Malta, Msida, Malta
cDepartment of Informatics, University of Piraeus, 80 Karaoli & Dimitriou str., 18534 Piraeus, Greece
dInformation Management Systems Institute, Athena Research Center, Artemidos 6, Marousi 15125, Greece
Abstract
Programming errors in Ethereum smart contracts can result in catastrophic ﬁnancial
losses from stolen cryptocurrency. While vulnerability detectors can prevent vulnera-
ble contracts from being deployed, this does not mean that such contracts will not be
deployed. Once a vulnerable contract is instantiated on the blockchain and becomes
the target of attacks, the identiﬁcation of exploit transactions becomes indispensable
in assessing whether it has been actually exploited and identifying which malicious or
subverted accounts were involved.
In this work, we study the problem of post-factum investigation of Ethereum attacks
using Indicators of Compromise (IoCs) specially crafted for use in the blockchain. IoC
deﬁnitions need to capture the side-effects of successful exploitation in the context of
the Ethereum blockchain. Therefore, we deﬁne a model for smart contract execution,
comprising multiple abstraction levels that mirror the multiple views of code execution
on a blockchain. Subsequently, we compare IoCs deﬁned across the different levels
in terms of their effectiveness and practicality through EtherClue, a prototype tool for
investigating Ethereum security incidents. Our results illustrate that coarse-grained
IoCs deﬁned over blocks of transactions can detect exploit transactions with less com-
putation; however, they are contract-speciﬁc and suffer from false negatives. On the
other hand, ﬁne-grained IoCs deﬁned over virtual machine instructions can avoid these
pitfalls at the expense of increased computation which are nevertheless applicable for
practical use.
Keywords: Blockchain Forensics, Ethereum Attacks, Indicators of Compromise,
Ethereum Operational Semantics
∗Corresponding author
Email addresses: simon-joseph.aquilina.15@um.edu.mt (Simon Joseph Aquilina),
francasino@unipi.gr (Fran Casino), mark.vella@um.edu.mt (Mark Vella),
joshua.ellul@um.edu.mt (Joshua Ellul), kpatsak@unipi.gr (Constantinos Patsakis)
arXiv:2104.05293v2  [cs.CR]  2 Sep 2021
1. Introduction
Nowadays, Ethereum is the largest public blockchain supporting smart contract
execution. While introducing ﬂexibility in terms of programmable transactions, as
deﬁned by Turing complete programming languages, the consequence is an enlarged
attack surface [1, 2]. The immediate venue for attacks is presented by the smart con-
tract code itself whenever it deviates from the intended functionality. This problem is
aggravated by incomplete knowledge of how a smart contract is executed at runtime
by inexperienced programmers. Security vulnerabilities at this level can be similar to
those found in non-blockchain code, e.g. arithmetic overﬂows, reentrancy, and poor
randomness. Others are speciﬁc to the particular nature of smart contracts, e.g. call to
unknown third-party contract code, improperly checking the return status of external
calls, and denial of service (DoS) vulnerabilities related to gas-based mitigation of in-
ﬁnite execution bugs or call-stack depth limits, among many others. Furthermore, the
number of currency/token-based contracts deployed on Ethereum aggravate the classic
vulnerability of insufﬁciently sanitised user-controlled inputs.
Other entry points for attacks are presented by the runtime environment support-
ing contract code execution. Ethereum’s infrastructure requires a virtual machine for
code execution, while the consensus protocol’s complexity is increased as a result of
taking into account contract execution during block mining. The case of malicious
miners being selective of which transactions, or in which order, they are included in-
side a mined block, is one such example. By doing so, an attacker can exploit time or
transaction order-dependent logic inside smart contracts. Finally, Ethereum’s external
environment comprises code that interacts with Ethereum nodes, e.g. dApps and off-
chain crypto wallets, further extend the attack surface [3]. At this level, attacks exploit
vectors within the technologies in question, e.g. DOM-based XSS for dApps, or spy-
ware in the case of desktop/mobile applications. Ultimately, these attacks can tamper
with the submitted transactions in various ways.
In recent years, we have witnessed a number of notorious security incidents con-
cerning the Ethereum blockchain that resulted in signiﬁcant ﬁnancial losses or drastic
measures being taken to avoid consequences. The DAO crowd-funding platform inci-
dent is perhaps one of the most representative of these, as on June 18th, 2016, attack-
ers managed to transfer $60M under their control [4]. The funds were salvaged only
through a hard fork, a measure which goes directly against the principle of allowing au-
tonomous authorities to be arranged foregoing central authority [5]. In April 2018, an
integer overﬂow vulnerability was the root cause for the attack on BECToken, resulting
in the theft of 1058 tokens. Just earlier this year, a potential multi-million dollar disaster
for users of DeﬁSaver was only averted by the timely action of its development team
when notiﬁed of a vulnerability in one of their digital asset management contracts [6].
This work aims to identify exploit transactions and, therefore, the focus is on vul-
nerabilities that can be exploited solely via maliciously crafted transactions. These are
submitted either directly from an externally owned account, i.e. an account not associ-
ated with code, or indirectly through a malicious smart contract. Ideally, such vulner-
abilities would have been detected prior to smart contract instance creation, especially
when one considers blockchain immutability. Therefore, tools that perform static anal-
ysis of smart contract code, identifying security vulnerabilities inside the source code
2
(e.g. Solidity) or decompiled Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) bytecode of smart
contracts, comprise the most common approaches. Notable examples include Oyente
[7], analysis tools based on Gigahorse [8], as well as EtherTrust [9], Securify [10],
Zeus [11] and the dynamic veriﬁcation tool for absence of reentrancy vulnerabilities
[12]. Others take a testing approach and focus on generating test inputs using a fuzzing
approach [13, 9, 14], comparing test outcomes with test oracles. However, in both
approaches, comprehensive execution path coverage remains an open challenge. As a
result, vulnerable contracts may still be deployed on the blockchain. In such cases, ex-
ploit transactions can be identiﬁed post-factum during a subsequent investigation with
the help of Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR) tools. Investigations of
this nature can help, ﬁrst and foremost, to understand whether the smart contract in
question has been exploited. In the afﬁrmative case, the identiﬁcation of exploit trans-
actions provides links to the source accounts. These accounts may either belong to
the perpetrators or victims whose accounts have been compromised. Furthermore, the
linked accounts may be associated with further smart contracts, which at this point
would have to be considered malicious, with any future transactions originating from
them considered suspicious.
Indicators of Compromise (IoC) constitute evidence of intrusion and are typi-
cally directly related to the long-term side-effects of successfully executing malware
[15].
For example, in the case of WannaCry ransomware attacks on a Windows
machine, investigators can identify which artifact variant is in play, and therefore
which recovery method could be effective, by checking whether the values cmd.exe
/c and C:\ProgramData\aucdehyopp032\tasksche.exe can be found under the
"HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\mssecsvc2.0" key used for persis-
tence. Another IoC can be based on the auto-propagation code that exploits Eternal-
Blue [16]. This step is observable within a network packet capture in the form of SMB
trafﬁc attempting a connection to IPC$ and followed by an unusually large NT Trans
SMB request. When one compares these host and network-level IoCs to Ethereum’s
state transitions, it is evident that we must consider radically different approaches.
We address the problem of responding to attacks on Ethereum smart contracts akin
to responding to computer intrusions. In fact, during the earlier stages of the incident
response process, a triage operation typically identiﬁes compromised devices. This is
a live forensics operation conducted while machines are still powered on. Indicators
of Compromise (IoC) constitute forensic evidence of the intrusion and are the key ele-
ments of triage representing long-term residue of attack steps [15]. While similar IoCs
could have been considered for attacks targeting Ethereum’s operational environment,
this approach does not apply at the smart contract level. If we consider contract exe-
cution steps as a state machine, we would rather be dealing with state transitions that
update Ethereum blocks, add transactions to mined blocks and manipulate the EVM’s
internal state. Therefore, our ﬁrst undertaking is precisely abstracting smart contracts
execution in a model that considers all three levels.
The result is the EtherClue DFIR tool (Figure 1), which given the address of a
contract account and a vulnerable code location, it makes use of an IoC repository to
identify potential exploit transactions from within an archive node that stores the full
blockchain history. Evidently, EtherClue is intended to complement, and not replace,
vulnerability detectors. While vulnerability detectors may prevent some vulnerabilities
3
to be deployed in production environments, in this case a blockchain, this does not
mean that the code is bulletproof. On the contrary, new attacks which may be even
unknown to the vulnerability detectors can lead to a late vulnerability discovery with
the smart contract already deployed.
In this context, one may investigate a suspected successful exploit. Examples of
suspicious activities may include the unexpected draining of an account’s balance, an
account getting stuck in a speciﬁc state or associated with an unusually high number
of failed transactions. Traces from the suspect transactions are passed to vulnerability
detectors, potentially presenting execution paths that would have been missed by them
during pre-deployment analysis, or be manually inspected. Once vulnerabilities are
conﬁrmed, their location is provided to EtherClue to obtain further information about
the incidents concerned.
 
 
EtherClue
Forensics Tool
IoC Repository
Ethereum
Archive Node
Blockchain
query/response
IoC Rule
Address
Vulnerability location
Output:
Tx: 0x662e6…
Tx: 0x318be…
Tx: 0xbed0d...
Input:
Smart
Contract
Vulnerability 
Detector
<<
>>
Figure 1: EtherClue DFIR tool.
Main contributions: The contributions of this work are manifold. More precisely,
ﬁrst, we introduce a model for Ethereum smart contract execution covering the block,
transaction and EVM levels, and upon which IoCs for the integer under/overﬂow, DoS,
and reentrancy exploit classes are deﬁned. Furthermore, we introduce EtherClue, a
new open-source DFIR tool making use of these IoCs.
We perform experiments with EtherClue in both synthesised and real-world use
cases and transactions. The full dataset for the synthesized cases has been publicly
released, along with attack transaction labels for the real-world ones. Our experimental
results show that block-level IoCs can produce results quicker than at the EVM-level as
EVM instruction traces grow larger, while the opposite is true for an increase in contract
storage size. Also, block-level IoCs are contract-speciﬁc and less precise than those
deﬁned at the EVM level. Therefore, a balance of precision and speed depending on
the application must be further assessed. Furthermore, we conducted some Ethereum
mainnet case studies, demonstrating EtherClue’s practicality for EVM-level IoCs.
The rest of this paper is structured as follows: Section 2 provides an overview
4
of Ethereum from the perspective of smart contract execution, as triggered by trans-
actions, as can be observed at the EVM/transaction/block levels; Section 3 positions
EtherClue alongside existing tools useful for digital forensics and incident response
concerning Ethereum and blockchain technology in general; Section 4 presents the
proposed model of smart contract execution before proceeding with IoC deﬁnitions;
Section 5 highlights the main components of EtherClue’s prototype implementation,
and which is subsequently used for experimentation in Section 6. Section 7 concludes
this work by highlighting the implications of the results produced using our public
dataset, as well as indicating the next steps required to bring EtherClue closer to a
production-ready state.
2. Background
Deﬁning IoCs for smart contract attacks requires a characterization of their
blockchain execution context. When viewing Ethereum as a world computer [17],
smart contracts become the programs that manipulate its global state and whose in-
tegrity is safeguarded by mainnet, Ethereum’s live blockchain. Mainnet is kept syn-
chronized and immutable by a combination of consensus and block hash chaining be-
tween participating nodes. They expose functions that, when called, as a result of
transaction execution during block mining, manipulate this global state. Transactions,
in turn, have their authenticity safeguarded by public-key cryptography. IoCs can ei-
ther focus solely on this global state as a forensic source or consider the intermediate
states resulting from individual transactions’ execution, down to the individual EVM
instructions as candidate forensic sources.
2.1. Ethereum Transactions and Smart Contracts
The most basic view of Ethereum is that of a sequence of accounts holding a value
in cryptocurrency, characterizing Ethereum’s global state. Accounts are identiﬁed by
a 160-bit address linked to a private key used to authenticate all currency transfers
requested on their behalf. Ether, Ethereum’s cryptocurrency, transfers between these
so-called external accounts take the form of transactions. Transactions identify the
source/destination addresses, the value in Ether, along with a digital signature authen-
ticating the request, among other ﬁelds. Smart contracts provide a way to deﬁne custom
ways of moving Ether between accounts, enabling the development of sub-currencies
(token), wallets, autonomous governance, and decentralized gambling/lottery applica-
tions [18], among others.
Listing 1 shows a simpliﬁed wallet smart contract, Wallet.sol, written in Solidity
[19]. A contract is itself an account on the blockchain, also holding a value in Ether,
with the important difference that it includes code. Wallet.sol exposes two func-
tions, deposit() (lines 5-12) and withdraw() (lines 9-18), both of which are callable
by transactions with the contract’s address as destination. The former is marked as
payable, meaning it can receive an Ether transfer and the payment (msg.value) is
recorded in the money (permanent) storage variable (line 3). The withdraw() function
accepts an amount argument as part of the transaction’s call data, resulting in a fur-
ther internal message call (line 12), or at least if sufﬁcient funds are available for the
transaction’s source address (msg.sender).
5
Listing 1: Wallet.sol - A Solidity wallet smart contract.
1 pragma
s o l i d i t y
>=0.5.8;
2 contract
Wallet {
3
mapping ( address => uint ) money ;
4
/* Deposit ether with the contract -account. */
5
function
d e p o s i t ( )
public
payable {
6
money [ msg . sender ] += msg . value ;
7
}
8
/* Withdraw ether from the contract -account. */
9
function
withdraw ( uint
amount )
public {
10
uint b = money [ msg . sender ] −amount ;
11
i f ( b > 0) {
12
( bool
rv ,
) = msg . sender . c a l l { value :
amount }( "" ) ;
13
i f ( rv )
14
{
15
money [ msg . sender ] = b ;
16
}
17
}
18
}
19 }
Listing 2: Bytecode snippet from the compiled Wallet.sol.
1 . . . SNIP . . .
2SUB
//money[msg.sender] - amount
3SWAP1
//uint b = money[msg.sender] - a...
4POP
//uint b = money[msg.sender] - a...
5PUSH 0
//0
6DUP2
//b
7GT
//b > 0
8 . . . SNIP . . .
9GAS
//msg.sender.call{value: amount}...
10CALL
//msg.sender.call{value: amount}...
11 . . . SNIP . . .
Prior to blockchain deployment and execution, smart contracts have to be compiled
to EVM bytecode and possibly assigned an initial value in Ether via one more trans-
action. The EVM is a stack machine, as indicated by the typical stack-manipulating
opcodes on lines 2-6 of the compiled Wallet.sol shown in Listing 2. Lines 9-10
concern the internal message call issued to withdraw via the CALL opcode. Of particu-
lar interest is the GAS opcode. This instruction reﬂects Ethereum’s gas system, where
instruction execution and memory utilization consume gas [20], paid in Ether by its
caller account as deﬁned by the STARTGAS transaction ﬁeld. Its value effectively limits
the maximum number of computational steps the transaction execution is allowed to
take.
This concept is crucial for Ethereum’s anti-denial of service model, preventing ac-
cidental or malicious computational wastage [18]. In turn STARTGAS is bounded by the
GASLIMIT value associated with Ethereum blocks [17]. Prior to instruction execution,
the EVM checks whether the gas required to execute the instruction added to the total
gas utilization so far exceeds the maximum gas allotted to the respective transaction,
triggering an out-of-gas exception when exceeded. By executing the GAS instruction
on Line 9, the amount of available gas is pushed on the stack, serving as the ﬁrst argu-
ment for the subsequent CALL instruction. In general, instructions related to the calling
6
of other contracts, or sending Ether to accounts, are required to forward an amount of
gas to the callee to consume. Gas prices are driven by a miners’ market, with trans-
action creators specifying gas prices and miners prioritizing those transactions with
favourable prices. A number of websites, e.g. ETH Gas Station1 help transaction cre-
ators to get their gas prices right.
2.2. Ethereum State Transitions
When considering Ethererum as a state machine, the execution of Wallet.sol
triggers state transitions on three levels: EVM instruction, transaction, and block min-
ing. At the EVM-level, Figure 2, the contract’s persistent storage and EVM’s volatile
memory sections characterize the execution state, while EVM instructions trigger tran-
sitions. A new state is created at the start of all external and (for some) internal calls. A
read-only data-section stores the call’s arguments, other transaction data, e.g. sender’s
address, transaction value in Ether, as well as block-related context, e.g. block’s hash
and timestamp. The contract storage is also made available, in our example storing
money’s key-value pairs. Any changes to it will eventually be reﬂected in the global
state post-successful execution. The stack area is the most dynamic, with Figure 3 il-
lustrating a state transition triggered by a SUB instruction, acting on the top of the stack
during withdraw()’s execution.
 
 
Code
169
SUB
170
SWAP1
171
POP
172
PUSH 0
SUB
Stack (volatile)
0:
0x02
1:
0x01
2:
0x00
3:
0x01
Call Data (volatile – read only)
0:
0x2e1a7...00001
Contract storage (persistent)
0xac40..
Key:    0x1a10 ...f02
Value: 0x02
Code
169
SUB
170
SWAP1
171
POP
172
PUSH 0
Stack (volatile)
0:
0x01
1:
0x00
2:
0x01
3:
0x5a
Call Data (volatile – read only)
0:
0x2e1a7...00001
Contract storage (persistent)
0xac40..
Key:    0x1a10 ...f02
Value: 0x02
EVM state i
EVM state i+1
Global state
Key:    0x1a10 ...f02
Value: 0x02
Key:    0x1a10 ...f02
Value: 0x01
Figure 2: An EVM-level state transition triggered by instruction execution.
1https://ethgasstation.info/
7
The transaction level’s state, Figure 3, is at a higher level of abstraction and is obliv-
ious of the EVM level. Rather, it is concerned with transactions updating Ethereum’s
global state. This state is an array of externally owned and contract accounts, with the
only difference with the latter being associated with contract code and their persistent
storage variables. Transaction-level state transitions, comprising the initial transaction
and any internal ones triggered as a consequence, manipulate accounts through trans-
action ﬁelds (e.g. destination account address and the cryptocurrency value ﬁelds) and
contract code execution. In the case of a transaction calling Wallet.sol’s withdrawal
function for 1 Wei (1 Ether = 1018 Wei), the post-state reﬂects an updated value in the
money map.
 
 
Contract account: 0xaaa
nonce:
0x
balance:
0x2
storage Root:
0x45784fda….
Code Hash:
0xb34712ac...
Tx:
0x82ee43...
From:
B8483F64...
To:
0xAc40c9C…
Value:
0x0
Data:
0xd0e3...
...
Key:    0x1a10 ...f02
Value: 0x02
Key:    0x1a10 ...f02
Value: 0x01
Global state
Global state i
Global state i+1
External account: 0xaaa
nonce:
0x0A
balance:
0x64
storage Root:
0x00
Code  Hash:
0x00
Contract account: 0xaaa
nonce:
0x
balance:
0x1
storage Root:
0x6ca234de….
Code Hash:
0xb34712ac...
External account: 0xaaa
nonce:
0x0A
balance:
0x64
storage Root:
0x00
Code  Hash:
0x00
Figure 3: A transaction-level state transition triggered by transaction execution.
Transactions are executed in blocks, and they are stored as an immutable
blockchain to safeguard the global state’s integrity. At the block level, Figure 4, ex-
ecution states are deﬁned by these newly accepted blocks of transactions (Tx) and
associated block meta-data, e.g. the block hash and the hash of the previous block
chained to it. This level does not keep account of intermediate states generated by indi-
vidual transactions or EVM-level state transitions, except for values inside transaction
receipts (Rx), or log entries made by contract code. Nevertheless, through transaction
tracing, typically offered by Ethereum nodes [21], it is possible to replay transaction
execution up to EVM instruction level. This is achieved by recomputing (or caching)
the global state at the transaction call point through blockchain traversal and accessing
the contract bytecode stored as part of the global state. The global state’s integrity is
safeguarded by a hash, called the state root, stored as part of every block.
8
 
 
Global state
Guarantees
State
Integrity
...
Tx: i-4
Tx: i-3
Tx: i-2
Tx: i-1
Tx: i
Block n-1
(Global state i)
...
Prev. Hash
TxRoot
Prev. Hash
TxRoot
Receipts Root
Block n
(Global state i+t)
Tx: i+1
Tx: i+2
Tx:82ee43...
Tx: i+3
Tx: i+t
Block: 0x45def82...
Block: 0xba4f62...
Newly mined block
State Root
State Root
Receipts Root
Figure 4: A block-level state transition triggered by block mining.
2.3. Notation and Execution Semantics
The semantics underpinning Oyente’s symbolic execution engine [7], were cho-
sen among other candidates [22, 23] since they provide a more convenient starting
point for the required model of smart contract execution. Thus, their coverage of all
three levels of smart contract execution simpliﬁes model development.. They build
upon the formalism presented in the Ethereum Yellow Paper [17]; referred to from
now on as EYP, where the global state made up of a sequence of all external/con-
tract accounts is denoted as σ. In contrast, the state of a single account with ad-
dress γ is denoted as σ[γ]. A single external/contract account state σ[γ], is the tuple
⟨balance,nonce,storageHash,codeHash⟩. The ﬁrst two tuple elements correspond to
the current value in currency owned by the account and countermeasure for replay
attacks on digitally signed transactions. The last two are only relevant for contract
accounts. They correspond to the root hashes of a (modiﬁed) Merkle trie structure (a
key/value store with integrity protection) [17] storing all contract persistent variables
and the hash of the smart contract code, respectively.
Accounts states are accessible via the world state lookup function, γ →σ[γ], in turn
requiring access to the blockchain BC to verify account state integrity. The three lev-
els of execution, at the EVM/transaction/block levels are deﬁned by the semantics of
small-step evaluation (⇝), successful transaction execution ( T
−→) and big-step evalu-
ation (⇓), updating the EVM state (µ), σ and BC respectively. Operational semantics
rules are used, each describing execution at the EVM, transaction or block levels of
abstraction, and structured as follows:
9
Execution:
expression1(µ|σ|BC,µ′|σ′|BC′)
expression2(µ|σ|BC,µ′|σ′|BC′)
...
expressionn(µ|σ|BC,µ′|σ′|BC′)
µ|σ|BC
⇝|
T
−→| ⇓
µ′|σ′|BC′
where expressions describe how post-states are evaluated from pre-sates and deﬁne
any constraints on the transition. At the EVM level, the semantics of a subset of the
EVM, called EtherLite, is provided. Combined, these semantics inform the imple-
mentation of a symbolic execution engine. In turn, Oyente beneﬁts from a symbolic
execution-based approach to inspecting contracts on a path-by-path basis. For each
path, a number of instruction sequence-centric conditions are applied to detect vul-
nerabilities. This approach is superior compared to dynamic testing, eliminating the
need for input generation to maximise code coverage. However, accurate emulation of
runtime execution becomes critical, warranting the need for precisely deﬁned execu-
tion semantics. In contrast, since EtherClue operates on traces derived from concretely
replayed transactions, this is no longer a requirement.
3. Related work
Post-factum detection and recovery from smart contract attacks is an area that has
received much less attention as compared to proactive defences. While this is under-
standable, this problem cannot be ignored, especially when one considers the limi-
tations of vulnerability detectors and the need to identify malicious or subverted ac-
counts. DappGuard [24] is the earliest effort we found in this direction, with a fo-
cus on studying whether transactions and transaction receipt information extracted by
blockchain exploration can help to uncover attacks. Its IoCs are referred to as attack
ﬁngerprints and compare to EtherClue’s block-level IoCs. Similar approaches attempt
to identify the discriminating features of accounts and associated transactions using
machine learning [25, 26].
TxSpector [27], on the other hand, is the most recent related work and, in fact,
carried out in parallel to EtherClue’s study. It adopts a static analysis method to work
on dynamic EVM bytecode traces instead and therefore compares to our EVM-level
IoCs. Instruction traces enriched with data and control ﬂow dependencies are derived
using a modiﬁed Ethereum node. Manually written logic rules are used to identify those
traces, at this point represented as logical relations, generated from known attacks.
TxSpector can be seen to be a generalization of Sereum [28], which take a dynamic
taint analysis approach to detect reentrancy exploit transactions. While Sereum was
originally positioned as a real-time detector, implemented by customizing an Ethereum
node, its underpinning technique could still be employed in a post-factum manner to
ﬂag transactions in a similar fashion to TxSpector. Yet its scope is restricted to just
reentrancy attacks and does not offer support for writing additional detector rules or
IoCs, as per TxSpector or EtherClue, respectively.
Ultimately the goals of EtherClue and TxSpector are similar, however with one
crucial difference. TxSpector, while capable of detecting exploit transactions, is actu-
ally conceived as a dynamic vulnerability detector, operating on instruction traces of
10
already-executed transactions, as opposed to considering all possible execution paths
that would have to be considered by a static analysis tool. On the other hand, EtherClue
is positioned to complement vulnerability detectors, following up vulnerabilities de-
tected within deployed contracts with an investigation concerning ﬁnding out whether
the contract has yet been attacked along which accounts are implicated. The result is
that of much simpler detection rules focusing on execution side-effects rather than pro-
gram analysis-based ones. Furthermore, EtherClue’s operational semantics foundation,
which already underpins Oyente’s [7] symbolic execution engine, can even provide a
basis for automated IoC generation.
Other works have the potential to complement EtherClue during incident response.
Firstly, the identiﬁed exploit transactions can be used to detect other attack transac-
tions related to the same incident, while not necessarily being exploit transactions per
se, e.g. transactions related to the setting up of malicious smart contracts or ones that
transfer stolen currency to ﬁnancial service contracts. DEFIER [29] is the only such
tool we are aware of, whereby given a seed set of attack transactions, it performs data
analysis using code/graph similarity, as well as time series analysis based on manually
inspected attack kill-chains, to identify further incident-related transactions. Two other
studies [30, 31] address the problem of the ever-increasing size of archive nodes and
the implication to blockchain analysis. Some of the explored aspects include the appli-
cation of parallel map/reduce and the practice of incomplete state storage that does not
compromise high-ﬁdelity transaction replay.
Once post-factum attack transactions are identiﬁed, the subsequent step is graceful
recovery. One approach is to prepare for recovery during the smart contract program-
ming stage using security patterns. The Emergency Stop pattern [32] involves deac-
tivating critical contract functions when certain conditions are met, leaving only the
possibility to withdraw funds. The Virtual Upgrade pattern [33] is less drastic, where
critical functions are only exposed through a proxy contract that can dynamically route
transactions to back-end contracts. This pattern provides ﬂexibility, re-routing trans-
actions to patched contracts at runtime. Automated patching can speed up this time-
critical operation, reducing the opportunity window for attacks further still [34].
Other studies have a completely different scope than EtherClue’s. Using honeypots
for threat analysis, for example, can shed light on little-known attack techniques [35].
ContractLarva is a Runtime Veriﬁcation tool that can prevent exploits from succeeding
by instrumenting smart contracts with security property veriﬁcation [36]. While this
approach raises smart contracts’ security level, it can only do so with respect to the
deﬁned properties and comes at the cost of additional gas consumption. Differently
from incident response, the investigation of cryptocurrency-driven blockchains also
concerns transactions related to fraud, extortion, money laundering and tax evasion dur-
ing forensic accounting exercises [37, 38]. Finally, permissioned/private blockchains
can be useful for chain-of-custody management of digital evidence [39, 40].
4. EtherClue IoCs
The model of smart contract execution encompasses all three levels of abstraction
for state transitions, i.e. the EVM, transaction and block levels. The base state transi-
11
tions build upon the operational semantics used for Oyente [7], while EtherClue’s IoCs
are deﬁned in terms of additional constraints over the base deﬁnitions.
4.1. Model of smart contract execution
Oyente’s [7] original semantics are primarily intended for accurate emulation, pro-
viding a suitable starting point for our model. Some modiﬁcations/additions are neces-
sary to ﬁt EtherClue’s digital forensics needs and are as follows:
• Introduce a new world state map that supports the retrieval of past global states.
• Provide custom deﬁnitions for blocks, transactions, and related structures, based
on those found in the EYP so as to focus solely on the forensic sources of interest.
• Likewise, abstract away details of the block mining process.
• Enhance the model with transaction receipts since these constitute evidence con-
cerning individual transaction execution.
• Enhance EVM-level operational semantics with a provision to indicate the loca-
tion of vulnerable code.
• EVM-level semantics are deﬁned over grouped instruction classes, rather than
for EtherLite (the sub-set of EVM instructions considered by Oyente). In this
manner, a single IoC can be conveniently deﬁned over multiple EVM instruc-
tions.
• Provide IoC templates for the EVM and block levels to detect exploit transaction
during transaction replay.
We now enlist all deﬁnitions, the execution model underpinning EtherClue’s IoCs,
highlighting the parts speciﬁc to EtherClue explicitly by enclosing them into a rounded-
boxed border.
The global state σ is an array of accounts, identiﬁable by the 160-bit contract ad-
dress γ. We also adopt the σ[γ]s and σ[γ]c notation, to conveniently refer to the actual
storage and code content respectively, rather than just the root hashes, and through
which to access their internal elements, e.g. σ[γ]s[varname].
According to the EYP:
Deﬁnition 4.1. An Ethereum account σ[γ] is deﬁned as the tuple:
σ[γ]
de f
= ⟨nonce,balance,storageHash,codeHash⟩,
where nonce denotes a fresh number to use as countermeasure against transaction re-
play attacks; balance denotes the account balance in Wei (= 10−18 Ether); storagehash
denotes the root hash for the contract storage’s Merkle trie, and codeHash denotes the
hash for associated smart contract EVM code.
12
EVM level. Deﬁnitions at this level are expressed in the spirit of all smarts contracts
executing in the context of the current global state σ and observable through a trace
of EVM opcodes, as derived through transactions replayed by an Ethereum node that
supports the debug traceTransaction2 API call. See Table 1 for an example. An Ac-
tivation Record Stack A of Activation Records AR is used to implement the mechanism
of internal transaction execution. ARs keep track of the EVM state µ to be resumed
once the current nested transaction returns control to its caller. The A for an external
transaction always starts empty (ε). Whenever an exception EXC is thrown, it is placed
on the top of the stack, replacing the topmost AR, effectively returning control to its
caller, that either handles EXC or bubbles it up further in the call stack. An AR reﬂects
the µ that is to be reinstated following caller resumption, and therefore has to keep
track of the executing code’s address (only addition to Oyente’s deﬁnition), the code
itself and the next instruction to execute on resumption, along with stack and volatile
random-access memory’s transient content, that would have been cleared out prior to
internal transaction execution. Therefore µ comprises the current A and the current σ in
which it executes. State transitions on this level are described by small-step evaluations
(⇝), and reﬂect the µs obtained for traced transactions. The full deﬁnition list for the
EVM-level is the following:
Deﬁnition 4.2. We deﬁne an Activation Record (AR) as the tuple
AR
def
= ⟨id,M, pc,l,s⟩,
where id denotes the γ of executing code, M denotes the smart contract’s EVM
code, pc denotes the program counter representing an offset into M, and l,s
denote the transient data in random-access volatile memory and stack memory
data accordingly.
Deﬁnition 4.3. Activation Records AR are stored in Activation Records Stacks A de-
ﬁned as:
A
def
= Anormal|EXC ·Anormal
Anormal def
= AR·Anormal|ε
where ‘·’ separates the top element, an AR or a thrown exception EXC, from the rest
of the stack; Anormal denotes an activation record for ‘normally halting’ calls, while ε
denotes the empty stack.
Deﬁnition 4.4. For an Activation Records stack A and an Ethereum account σ provid-
ing the execution context (see Deﬁnition 4.1), we deﬁne an EVM state µ as the tuple:
µ
def
= ⟨A,σ⟩
2https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/rpc/ns-debug#debug tracetransaction
13
Deﬁnition 4.5. We abstract the transition from an EVM state µ to an EVM state µ′, as
triggered by EVM opcodes inside replayed transaction traces, and call it a Small-step
Evaluation representing it as µ ⇝µ′.
Note that in Table 1, a[i 7→v] evaluates to a new array identical to a, but storing the
new value v at position i.
Table 1: Example EVM-level transitions are described in terms of how speciﬁc EVM opcodes inside replayed
transaction traces can be observed to alter the abstract EVM state µ.
M[pc]
Conditions
µ
µ′
PUSH8 1
-
⟨⟨id,M, pc,l,s⟩,·A,σ⟩
⟨⟨id,M, pc+1,l,1·s⟩·A,σ⟩
PUSH8 5
-
⟨⟨id,M, pc,l,1·s⟩·A,σ⟩
⟨⟨id,M, pc+1,l,5·1·s⟩·A,σ⟩
k = 5 ←pop(s)
SSTORE
v = 1 ←pop(s)
⟨⟨id,M, pc+1,l,5·1·s⟩·A,σ⟩
⟨⟨id,M, pc,l,s⟩·A,σ′⟩
σ′ ←σ[id][storage][k →v]
In EtherClue, we opted to deﬁne IoCs over grouped instruction classes and require
the vulnerability’s location(s) and its associated parameters. This is both reasonable
and practical since EtherClue’s scope complements and does not replace vulnerability
detectors. Furthermore, IoC deﬁnitions can focus solely on the identiﬁcation of exploit
side-effects, without being concerned with deﬁning the nature of the vulnerability per
se. The notation we make use of, ⊗NAME
PARAM1...N, identiﬁes EVM instruction classes by
NAME. The parameter list PARAM1...N provides a vulnerability-speciﬁc context for
the instruction class in question. For example, ⊗INT groups multiple integer arithmetic
instructions. In terms of Solidity source language constructs, this grouping ranges over
all possible integer sub-types (UINT8-256, INT8-256). Therefore a parameter list is
required to deﬁne the lower/upper bounds for speciﬁc sub-types. These parameters
assume the availability of the (possibly decompiled) source code. On the other hand,
VULN LOCS, a set of code offsets belonging to a detected vulnerability, is instantiated
with the code offsets from M associated with it, and where every opcode belongs to
⊗NAME.
To provide a common template, EVM-level IoCs are deﬁned as a sequence of con-
straint expressions, deﬁned over µ, µ′, and VULN LOCS,PARAM1...N, qualifying those
side-effects that render a small-step evaluation to be considered an exploit step. When
all predicate expressions evaluate to true for a particular small-step evaluation, the
corresponding transaction is ﬂagged as an exploit during replayed execution. More
formally:
14
Deﬁnition 4.6. We deﬁne an EVM-level IoC template as an EVM instruction
class:
⊗NAME
PARAM1...N :
VULN LOCS ←M offsets
expression1(µ,µ′,VULN LOCS,PARAM1...N)
expression2(µ,µ′,VULN LOCS,PARAM1...N)
...
expressionn(µ,µ′,VULN LOCS,PARAM1...N)
µ ⇝µ′
where M offsets is a set of code offsets belonging to a vulnerability;
VULN LOCS is a symbolic constant representing the above set of code
offsets; µ,µ′ denote EVM-level pre/post-states; ⊗NAME is an EVM instruction
class that matches the IoC; PARAM1...N represent EVM instruction class
parameters; expressioni are operational semantics expressions deﬁned over
µ,µ′,VULN LOCS,PARAM1...N, with an IoC match occurring whenever all
predicate expressions evaluate to true.
Transaction level. At this level, we consider the sender, to, value and data elements
of successful transactions T as evidence sources. These elements correspond to the
source/destination addresses, amount of cryptocurrency being transferred, and a data
ﬁeld identifying the contract’s public function and arguments. Transactions are ex-
ecuted as a sequence of 0 (when a destination is also an external account) or more
small-step evaluations ⇝∗. State transitions
T
−→at this level operate on σ, transfer-
ring cryptocurrency corresponding to T’s value to σ[to]’s balance. Further updates to
σ may occur as a result of executing σ[to]c on termination of a small-step evaluation
⇝∗. The ﬁnalized deﬁnitions comprise a sub-set of transaction attributes deﬁned in the
EYP and the deﬁnitions provided by Oyente for transaction execution, either ending
successfully or with an exception. In the latter case, the currency associated with the
transaction is not transferred, and the changes to the global state are not committed.
Deﬁnition 4.8, while maintaining the original semantics of transaction execution, its
deﬁned to reﬂect modiﬁcations in its primitive deﬁnitions.
Deﬁnition 4.7. We deﬁne a Transaction T in terms of a subset of the EYP’s
deﬁnition, as the tuple T
def
= ⟨sender,to,value,data⟩, where sender denotes
sender’s account address γ, to denotes the target’s account address γ′, value
denotes the transaction amount in Wei, and data denotes the call data. That
is an array comprising the hash of a public function exposed by the target to
followed by the function arguments
Deﬁnition 4.8. Transaction Execution
T
−→:
15
Tx-SUCCESS:
⟨sender,to,value,data⟩←T
M ←σ[to]c
σ′ ←σ[to][balance 7→(σ[to][balance]+value)]
⟨⟨to,M,0,data,ε⟩·ε,σ′⟩⇝∗⟨ε,σ′′⟩
σ
T
−→σ′′
Tx-EXCEPTION:
⟨sender,to,value,data⟩←T
M ←σ[to]c
σ′ ←σ[to][balance 7→(σ[to][balance]+value)]
⟨⟨to,M,0,data,ε⟩·ε,σ′⟩⇝∗⟨EXC ·ε,σ′′⟩
σ
T
−→σ
where Tx-SUCCESS represents a successfully completed transaction; while Tx-EXCEPTION
represents a failed transaction ending with a thrown exception; σ, σ′′ represent the
pre/post (global) states; while σ′ represents the interim (global) state which stores
the new target account’s balance prior to smart contract execution; ⇝∗represents a
sequence of 0 or more small-step evaluations (⇝), depending on whether the target
address to is a smart contract account or not; and EXC is a thrown exception.
While the transaction-level deﬁnitions are needed by the block-level ones, we deem
IoCs at this level to be unnecessary. Detecting IoCs at this level would ﬁrst and fore-
most accessing the state σ and σ′′, upon which IoCs at this level would be deﬁned.
While transaction receipts at the block level (see Deﬁnition 4.11) can shed some light
on the make-up of these states, their complete characterization is not. Rather, the only
manner with which σ and σ′′ can be computed is by executing ⇝∗. Since this amounts
to the same processing carried out at the EVM level, which also has access to σ and
σ′′, EVM-level detection trumps the transaction level at no additional cost.
Block level. This level is concerned with the execution of batched transaction se-
quences TXs, as chosen out of a transaction pool set Γ, during successful block mining.
Successful transaction execution results in transaction receipts Rx (we only consider
the log entries logs and transaction status codes statusCode) to be added to the block’s
receipt sequence RXs. A newly mined block β, therefore, performs a big-step evalu-
ation, transitioning from the global state σ0 directly to σn after having batch-executed
n transactions. Finally, β is appended to the blockchain BC, comprising a sequence of
all the blocks mined so far. Overall we ignore details of the consensus protocol con-
sidered to not contribute as a forensic evidence source, e.g. details of the block mining
process, such as proof-of-work, or the propagation of successfully mined blocks across
the entire Ethereum peer network. However, we are not concerned with executing the
next block of transactions here, but rather with being able to fetch any past σ0/σn pair
and verify whether the corresponding ⇓constitutes a transition during which an exploit
transaction occurred. To add this capability to our model, we enhance the notion of the
World State ω mapping with the ability to take any state root (a hash of the global state
corresponding to a block β) from the past and return its corresponding σstateRoot. This
enhanced deﬁnition naturally also applies to EVM-level IoCs, and through which they
16
obtain the ability to replay transaction traces in the ﬁrst place. Therefore we say that
EtherClue operates on an Archive Node ⟨BC,ω⟩. The resulting deﬁnitions, omitting
details unused by EtherClue and adding the concept of an archive node, are as follows.
First, we use Oyente’s deﬁnition for a Transaction sequence:
Deﬁnition 4.9. A Transaction sequence TXs is an ordered set of n transactions
TXs
def
= (T1,...,Tn)
Deﬁnition 4.10. We deﬁne a Transaction Pool Γ as a sequence of transactions
Ti of arbitrary size m:
Γ
def
= {T0,...,Tm}
from which TXs of size n can be chosen in any order and m > n.
Deﬁnition 4.11. We deﬁne a Transaction Receipt R as a tuple:
R
def
= ⟨logs,statusCode⟩,
where logs denote the event log entries as created by the EVM LOGX opcodes
and statusCode denotes the transaction status code (success or failure).
Deﬁnition 4.12. We deﬁne a Receipt Sequence RXs as an ordered sequence of
n Transaction Receipts:
RXs
def
= (R1,...,Rn)
We use a subset of the Block deﬁnition from EYP as it is deemed relevant as a
forensic source.
17
Deﬁnition 4.13. We deﬁne a Block β as the tuple:
β
de f
= ⟨parent,TXs,RXs,stateRoot⟩,
where parent refers to the block’s parent block through its hash, stateRoot
denotes the root hash of the Merkle trie storing σ, and TXs, RXs denote a
Transaction and Receipt Sequence, respectively.
Deﬁnition 4.14. We deﬁne a Blockchain BC as a sequence of n blocks:
BC
def
= (β0,...,βn)
Deﬁnition 4.15. We deﬁne a World State ω as:
ω
def
= stateRoot 7→σstateRoot,
where σstateRoot: σ for some block β with β[stateRoot] = stateRoot
Deﬁnition 4.16. We deﬁne an Archive Node A as a tuple of a blockchain BC
and a world state ω:
A = ⟨BC,ω⟩
18
Deﬁnition 4.17. For a given Transaction Pool Γ from which a transaction
sequence TXs is selected by a miner at its discretion, and using ε to denote
and empty sequence and ... to delimit the ﬁrst and last elements of a sequence;
we deﬁne a Big-step evaluation, denoted as ⇓in the context of blockchain BC,
and generating the Receipt Sequence RX, as :
BIG-STEP:
TXs ←select(Γ)
(T1,...,Tn) ←TXs
Rx ←ε
βparent ←last(BC)
σ0 ←ω[βparent[stateRoot]]
∀i,
1 ≤i ≤n : {
σi-1
Ti−→σi,Rx[i] ←generateReceipt(Ti)}
β ←⟨βparent,TXs,RXs,rootHash(σn)⟩
ω′ ←ω[β[stateRoot] 7→σn]
⟨BC,σ0,ω⟩⇓⟨BC ·β,σn,ω′⟩
where σ0,σn denote the global state prior/post β, respectively; BC · β de-
notes the appending of block β to BC; ω,ω′ denote the world map updated
to reﬂect β’s state root; select() denotes the miner’s process of choosing
transactions from Γ at its discretion; and last() denotes the function that
retrieves the last block (β) from blockchain BC; generateReceipt() returns a
sequence of event logs for some T; while rootHash() denotes the function that
computes the state root for some global state σ.
Deﬁning block-level IoCs directly on the notion of a Big-step evaluation, as per
Deﬁnition 3.18, is however counterproductive since it is requires replaying all the trans-
actions belonging to the block β under investigation. In effect this approach would
render block-level analysis completely useless since it requires redoing all the trace
generation work carried out at the EVM level. Rather, beginning from a block β we
want to investigate, we make use of ω computed during a big-step evaluation to lookup
both the required ⟨BC,σ0⟩and its corresponding ⟨BC · β,σn⟩, as opposed to deriving
the latter through full transaction replay. The net effect is that of coarse-grained replay,
where the side-effects at the blockchain and the BC and the global state (σ) are made
available at block batches i.e. for ⟨BC,σ0⟩and ⟨BC · β,σn⟩but not the interim σi, or
any µ for that matter. To deﬁne the required partial replay, we make use of the Big-step
lookup ⇕:
19
Deﬁnition 4.18. For a given block β in blockchain BC containing n transac-
tions, we deﬁne its associated Big-step lookup ⇕as:
BIG-STEP-LOOKUP:
βparent ←β[parent]
σ0 ←ω[βparent[stateRoot]]
σn ←ω[β[stateRoot]]
⟨BC,σ0⟩⇕⟨BC ·β,σn⟩
where βparent represents β’s parent as retrieved through its block hash
stored in β[parent]; σ0 and σn are the global states corresponding to βparent
and β respectively, with σn reﬂecting a global state update once β’s n transac-
tions get executed; both σ0 and σn are retrieved, rather than computed, through
the world map ω.
As for a common template, block-level IoCs are made up of expressions deﬁned
over historical σ0/σn pairs, in turn, derived using the most recent ω and their corre-
sponding βs. A block is ﬂagged as containing an exploit transaction when all predicate
expressions evaluate to true.
Deﬁnition 4.19. Block-level IoC template:
Vulnerability:
expression1(σ0,σn,βparent,β)
expression2(σ0,σn,βparent,β)
...
expressionn(σ0,σn,βparent,β)
⟨BC,σ0,⟩⇕⟨BC ·β,σn,⟩
where Vulnerability is a vulnerability class name to which the IoC be-
longs to; β,βparent denote the block under investigation and its parent,
respectively; σ0,σn are the pre/post global states respectively; ⟨BC,σ0,⟩
denotes the block-level pre-state comprising BC prior to β’s addition and its
corresponding global state σ0; ⟨BC · β,σn,⟩denotes the block-level post-state
reﬂecting the new global state σn resulting from when beta is appended to
BC and its n transaction executed; expressioni are operational semantics
expressions deﬁned over σ0, σn, βparent, β, with an IoC match occurring
whenever all predicate expressions evaluate to true.
4.2. IoCs for exploit transactions
In what follows, we use some vulnerable code snippets from [41] to illustrate how
our IoCs are derived using IoC templates from Deﬁnitions 4.6 and 4.19.
Arithmetic over/underﬂow. Listing 3 is a code snippet with integer under/overﬂow
vulnerabilities on lines 8 and 9, respectively, as a consequence of the absence of bounds
checking in both cases.
Listing 3: Integer over/underﬂow in Exchange.sol.
20
1 mapping ( address => uint256 )
public
balanceOf ;
2
3 // INSECURE
4 function
tr a n s fe r ( address
to ,
uint256
v a l u e ) {
5
/* Check if sender has balance */
6
require ( balanceOf [ msg . sender ] >=
v a l u e ) ;
7
/* Add and subtract new balances */
8
balanceOf [ msg . sender ] −=
v a l u e ;
9
balanceOf [
t o ] +=
v a l u e ;
10 }
The EVM-level IoC, shown in Deﬁnition 4.20, is deﬁned over instruction class
grouping all integer arithmetic operation ⊗INT. While this IoC applies to any over/un-
derﬂow IoC, the TYPE parameter is contract-speciﬁc, identifying the lower/upper
bounds of the integer type concerned. In the case of Listing 3, we are concerned with
an overﬂow in the value of the balanceOf mapping in the contract’s storage, which is
of type uint256. Therefore TYPE in this case has to be instantiated as ⟨0,2256 −1⟩.
Similarly, VULN LOC is a place-holder for the instruction offsets related to the cor-
responding integer arithmetic opcodes. Any ⊗INT in this region is checked for an
out-of-bounds condition, verifying whether ⇝results in an over/underﬂow. By ﬁrst
casting, the integer operation to its Z equivalent (⊙INT), exploit veriﬁcation reduces to
checking whether ⊙INT’s evaluation falls outside of the TYPE’s range.
Deﬁnition 4.20. EVM-level integer over/underﬂow IoC.
⊗INT
TYPE:
pc ∈VULN LOC
a′,b′ ∈Z ←cast(a,b)
v′ ←a′ ⊙INT b′
v′ < TYPE.min∨v′ > TYPE.max
v ∈TYPE ←cast(v′)
⟨⟨id,M, pc,l,a·b·s⟩·A,σ⟩
⇝⟨⟨id,M, pc+1,l,v·s⟩·A,σ⟩
where ⊗INT de f
= ADD | MUL | SUB | SDIV | ADDMOD | MULMOD | EXP ;
TYPE.min/max: deﬁne the lower/upper bounds for the EVM integer type of
a given contract; ⊙INT maps ⊗INT to its (inﬁnite) Z counterpart; and cast()
maps arguments between EVM integer types and Z.
Example 4.1 describes the block-level IoC, with the out-of-bounds condition in
Listing 3 detectable at the contract storage level, rendering it contract-speciﬁc. In this
case, the expressions are deﬁned over the content of block β, and the global states prior
and post its mining, σ0 and σn respectively. The expressions constraining the coarsely
replayed ⇓, represented by ⇕, check for the existence of a T from β’s TXs which: has
Exchange.sol’s contract as its destination; compares the pre/post balances (bal and
bal′) of the T’s sender, and that of the account speciﬁed in the call data argument to.
Given that the transfer function is intended to shift funds from the sender’s to to
accounts, the side-effect of an over/underﬂow is one where either the prior’s balance
ends up increasing or vice-versa. When all these expressions evaluate to true, the block
in question is ﬂagged as containing an exploit transaction.
21
Example 4.1. Contract-speciﬁc block-level integer over/underﬂow IoC.
o/u ﬂow:
TXs ←β[TXs]
∃T ∈TXs : {
⟨sender,to,value,data⟩←T
to == γExchange.sol
bal ←σ0[to]s[balanceOf]
bal′ ←σn[to]s[balanceOf]
to ←T[data][to]
bal′[sender] > bal[sender]∨bal′[ to] < bal[ to]}
⟨BC,σ0⟩⇕⟨BC ·β,σn⟩
where
γExchange.sol
denotes
Exchange.sol’s
contract
account
address
DoS with (unexpected) revert. Listing 4 is a highest-bidder type of contract, that
on receipt of a bid exceeding the current highest one, the contract-held funds are trans-
ferred back to the old bidder. Line 9, however, can be abused by an attacker making use
of a destination contract account with a fallback payable function that always reverts.
Line 9 therefore, always fails, pulling off a DoS on Auction.sol.
Listing 4: DoS vulnerability in Auction.sol.
1 // INSECURE
2 contract
Auction {
3
address
c u r r e n t L e a d e r ;
4
uint
h i g h e s t B i d ;
5
6
function
bid ( )
payable {
7
require ( msg . value > h i g h e s t B i d ) ;
8
9
require ( c u r r e n t L e a d e r . send ( h i g h e s t B i d ) ) ;
// Refund the old
leader , if it fails then revert
10
11
c u r r e n t L e a d e r = msg . sender ;
12
h i g h e s t B i d = msg . value ;
13
}
14 }
In this case, the EVM-level IoC in Deﬁnition 4.21 captures the small-step calcula-
tion (⇝) resulting in a failed CALL (returns 0), and which happens speciﬁcally at the
vulnerable location. Temporarily, we ignore the possibility of a similar issue happen-
ing with a DELEGATECALL. By deﬁnition, we do not expect that a STATICCALL can ever
result in a DoS of this type. No additional parameters apply in this case.
22
Deﬁnition 4.21. EVM-level DoS with (unexpected) revert IoC.
⊗CALL:
pc ∈VULN LOC
r = 0
⟨⟨id,M, pc,l,s⟩·A,σ⟩
⇝⟨⟨id,M, pc+1,l,r ·s⟩·A,σ⟩
where ⊗CALL de f
= CALL.
At the block level Example 4.2 captures a Big-step lookup (⇕) where, due to the
vulnerability in Listing 4, despite comprising a transaction value higher than the current
highest bid, the highest bid remains the same. Once again, we note its contract-speciﬁc
nature and that block-level ﬂagging still applies.
Example 4.2. Contract-speciﬁc block-level DoS with (unexpected) revert
IoC.
DoS:
TXs ←β[TXs]
∃T ∈TXs : {
⟨sender,to,value,data⟩←T
to == γAuction.sol
hbid ←σ0[to]s[highestBid]
hbid′ ←σn[to]s[highestBid]
value > hbid ∧hbid′ == hbid}
⟨BC,σ0⟩⇕⟨BC ·β,σn⟩
where γAuction.sol: Auction.sol’s contract account address
Reentrancy. Back to Exchange.sol, Listing 5 this time shows a reentrancy issue in
line 6. The contract wrongly assumes that line 8 will always be called prior to the same
sender account attempting a further withdrawal. Yet, this is perfectly possible by a
callback to withdrawBalance() performed by a malicious payable fallback function
in the called contract.
Listing 5: Reentrancy vulnerability in Exchange.sol.
1 // INSECURE
2 mapping ( address => uint )
private
userBalances ;
3
4 function
withdrawBalance ( )
public {
5
uint
amountToWithdraw = userBalances [ msg . sender ] ;
6
( bool
success ,
) = msg . sender . c a l l . value ( amountToWithdraw ) ( "" ) ;
//
At this point , the caller’s code is executed , and can call
withdrawBalance again
7
require ( success ) ;
8
userBalances [ msg . sender ] = 0;
9 }
The IoC reﬂects this exploit in Deﬁnition 4.22, where during a small-step evalua-
tion that updates the contract storage (and therefore σ), the activation record stack A
23
includes at least one entry; besides the one top, with the same id (the contract address).
This IoC evaluating to true implies that when the sender’s balance is being zeroed out
(line 8), this step is not being performed by the outermost call but rather as a result of
an internal transaction. This is exactly the scenario that the contract’s programmer was
wrongly assuming as not being possible.
Deﬁnition 4.22. EVM-level reentrancy IoC.
⊗STORAGE:
pc ∈VULN LOC
∃a ∈A : a[id] = id
⟨⟨id,M, pc,l,v·s⟩·A,σ⟩
⇝⟨⟨id,M, pc+1,l,s⟩·A,σ′⟩
where ⊗STORAGE de f
= SSTORE.
At the block level, the IoC in Example 4.3 identiﬁes the event of a withdrawal
transaction resulting in a σn where the contract’s balance (contractval′) does not tally
with the correct user balance withdrawal (̸= contractval −user), possibly even fully
emptied, as a consequence of the vulnerability in Listing 5.
Example 4.3. Contract-speciﬁc block-level reentrancy IoC.
Reentr:
TXs ←β[TXs]
∃T ∈TXs : {
⟨sender,to,value,data⟩←T
to == γExchange.sol
contractval ←σ0[to][balance]
contractval′ ←σn[to][balance]
user ←σ0[to]s[userBalances][sender]
contractval′ ̸= (contractval −user)}
⟨BC,σ0⟩⇕⟨BC ·β,σn⟩
where γExchange.sol: Exchange.sol’s contract account address
5. The EtherClue tool
The EtherClue prototype is written in JavaScript, and its codebase is open-source3.
It is intended to be connected either to a private Ethereum node or to a public cloud
service. In either case, the nodes must be full archive nodes, meaning that they contain
a full copy of mainnet, as they have to process all the code and transactions and not
a fragment of them like, e.g. ArchiveNode4. In the case of EVM-level detection, the
nodes must offer full transaction tracing capabilities, i.e. single-stepping over EVM
3https://gitlab.com/simonjaquilina/etherclue
4http://archivenode.io
24
instructions with full access to the EVM state. Its main components and their corre-
sponding interfaces are depicted in Figure 5. Once a vulnerable contract is identiﬁed
post-deployment, its blockchain address and the corresponding vulnerable bytecode
offsets are passed to EtherClue via its user interface. Additionally, further parameters
such as ﬁlters, IoC detectors, and blockchain explorer components, are incorporated to
automate the investigation accordingly. These main components, along with support-
ing ones, are described in the next paragraphs.
 
 
Archive
Archive
Filters
Web3 over
JSON RPC
Web APIs
fs, neat-csv
Orchestrator
Explorer
Web3 over
JSON RPC
Address
Vulnerability location
Input:
Smart
Contract
Cache
Block/EVM 
IoC detector
Address
Vulnerability locations
Filter/Detector/Explorer config.
<<Context tracker>>
EVM-level
IoC rules
Block-level
IoC rules
1.
2.
3.
4.
5a.
5b.
6a.
6b.
txList()
TXs
processTXs(TXs)
collectBockDetails()→              
<Block­1, Block>, historical global states/
TxTrace()→ op1, op2, …, opn
consider()
Output:
Tx: 0x662e6…
Tx: 0x318be…
Tx: 0xbed0d...
7.
...
...
Figure 5: EtherClue’s architecture and the main investigation workﬂow steps.
The Orchestrator receives user inputs and loads the necessary components, fol-
lowed by coordinating the ﬁrst four steps of an investigation workﬂow. Given the
address of a vulnerable contract among the input parameters (step 1) it proceeds to
call the speciﬁed ﬁlter’s txList() interface to obtain the relevant transactions (TXs)
(steps 2 and 3). All those external and internal transactions featuring the vulnerable
contract’s address as their target comprise the ﬁrst automatic ﬁltering stage. Addition-
ally, any other ﬁlter parameters are also applied, e.g. the transactions’ target public
function. The retrieved transactions are then used to feed the block or EVM-level IoC
detectors (step 4). IoC detectors ﬁrstly obtain the required block or EVM-level in-
formation from an explorer component, by calling its collectBlockDetails(), and
possibly also TxTrace(), or by retrieving cached responses (steps 5a and 5b respec-
tively). The obtained block information or transaction traces are sent to the IoC rule
components (steps 6a or 6b) by calling their exposed consider() method, ﬂagging any
exploits. Finally, EtherClue outputs the list of any exploit blocks or transactions found
25
(step 7).
Filters. We have implemented four ﬁlters: The ﬁrst one connects to any Ethereum
archive node listening over a JSON-RPC5 interface using web3.js6. Two additional
ﬁlters are designed to connect to Etherscan7 and Blockchair8 blockchain explorers
through their web APIs. These ﬁlters can be useful, for example, to retrieve all in-
ternal transactions associated with a speciﬁc external transaction directly from their
transaction cache. Finally, a fourth ﬁlter provides the convenience of supplying basic
blockchain transaction information inside ofﬂine CSV ﬁles. Developing ﬁlters to pro-
vide customized functionalities, such as for an analytics service, e.g. Bloxy9, requires
speciﬁc development and is left to future work.
IoC detectors are tasked with steps 5-7 according to the different orchestrator calls
as deﬁned by the user input. In this respect, the explorer component provides a crit-
ical supporting service since it leverages a full archive node to retrieve the relevant
historical global states. Given the time-consuming process involved, EtherClue can be
conﬁgured to cache explorer output. The core task of an IoC detector is to call the user-
speciﬁed IoC rule in step 6. In this regard, the EVM-level detector also needs to pass
any additional user parameters, e.g. TYPE.MIN/MAX for the integer over/underﬂow
IoC (see Deﬁnition 4.20).
IoC rules are JavaScript objects called by detectors per block/trace. A block-
level object prototype (or “class”) must implement the method consider, providing
the encoding of IoC semantics, which is called for each block retrieved by its corre-
sponding IoC detector. It exposes the following interface: function(blockNumber,
txs, accounts, blockBefore, blockAfter); where the parameters stand for the
block number, its vulnerability-relevant transactions, the relevant historical accounts
states, and the pre/post blocks.
The EVM-level objects are called per transaction
trace.
Their consider method is exposed as: function(address, tx, trace,
callback); where parameters stand for the contract address, transaction hash and its
trace, along with callback function for reporting alert details. For both object types, a
number of helper components are also needed10.
Context tracker. This component is used by the EVM-level IoC detector. When-
ever a message call-generating instruction is encountered, e.g. CALL and STATICCALL,
it ensures that IoC detection is disabled until a RETURN or REVERT appears, otherwise
this would create a conﬂict to the expressions deﬁned over code locations.
Modes of operation. The entire investigation workﬂow of Figure 5 supports three
speciﬁc modes of operation according to the speciﬁc choice of components, or their
supported functionality. In local mode EtherClue is conﬁgured to connect to a lo-
cal archive node, by both the ﬁlter and the explorer components. When operating in
cached mode we refer to IoC detectors using the local cache (step 5b) whenever pos-
5https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/rpc/server
6https://web3js.readthedocs.io
7https://etherscan.io/apis
8https://blockchair.com/api/docs
9https://bloxy.info/
10See example objects for further details at: https://gitlab.com/simonjaquilina/etherclue/-
/tree/master/src/detectors
26
sible. Finally, the explorer component offers a custom tracer mode to the EVM IoC
detector. In this mode, TxTrace() accepts a tracer JavaScript object, which is used
as input to the debug traceTransaction RPC endpoint to pre-ﬁlter the instruction
trace according to the chosen EVM-level IoC rule, and thus reduce the size of the trace
transferred from the archive node.
The command-line interface. The following is an example EtherClue invocation
using its command line interface:
node EtherClue -c "./db" -t "5482796-5488697[blockchair+fs][web3][evm[geth]]"
-p address=0xc5d105e63711398af9bbff092d4b6769c82f793d
-f blockchair[from=5482796,to=5488697,fs=["batchTransfer(address[],uint256)"]]
-e web3[provider=https://api.archivenode.io/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX/erigon]
-d evm[pattern=GethOverflowIoCDetector]
where the -t tag switch identiﬁes the name of the output log, which in this ex-
ample reﬂects the ensuing user conﬁguration; the -p shared parameter switch is used
for key/value pairs to be made available to all EtherClue components, such as contract
addresses; the -f ﬁlter switch identiﬁes the ﬁlter, with further component-speciﬁc
parameters inside the square brackets[]. In this example the blockchair ﬁlter is
chosen, with the from/to parameters deﬁning the block range to be considered.
Moreover, the fs function selector parameter deﬁnes a further ﬁltering option based on
the target public function name. The -e explorer switch identiﬁes the web3 explorer;
the only one developed so far, and with its component-speciﬁc parameter provider
specifying the archivenode.io API server. Finally, the -d detector switch speciﬁes
the use of the EVM-level IoC detector, along with the corresponding IoC Rule
speciﬁed by the pattern parameter. Vulnerable contract code locations are supplied
by an associated JSON ﬁle. The -c switch can be used to enable result caching which
expects the name of the directory where the cache ﬁles will be stored.
6. Evaluation
A number of diverse experiments were carried out to provide further insight into
EtherClue’s IoC effectiveness and performance and are presented in the following para-
graphs.
6.1. Experimental Setup
First, we employed a mix of synthetic contracts embedding common vulnerabili-
ties and smart contracts from Ethereum mainnet. In this manner, we strike a balance
between control over blockchain content and realism. The former were speciﬁcally
created to maximise variation in blockchain content, thereby enabling a more compre-
hensive insight into EtherClue than what is possible with exiting mainnet content. The
latter provides an opportunity to demonstrate practical deployment. In the former setup,
we connect EtherClue to a private geth 1.9.21-stable node whose blockchain is
populated with multiple benign and exploit transactions. Both geth and EtherClue
are hosted on an Intel Core i5 1.3 GHz with 4GB of RAM machine. For the mainnet
27
setup, we connected EtherClue to both Etherscan and ArchiveNode to obtain the full
internal transaction list for each external transaction of interest and the EVM traces per
external/internal transaction, respectively.
The datasets11 used for experimentation have been publicly released to facilitate
further experimentation with Ethereum forensics. It includes a private blockchain, aim-
ing to emulate real vulnerable smart contracts and exploit transactions, but purposely
aiming to maximise content variation, along with labelled (manually veriﬁed) attack
transactions for the Ethereum mainnet case studies.
The synthetic smart contracts are:
Underﬂow - TargetUnderflow and
DelayedUnderflow that include underﬂow vulnerabilities that directly or indirectly
(i.e. overﬂow impact on control-ﬂow) affect contract storage respectively; Overﬂow
-SimulationBECToken which embeds the BECToken overﬂow vulnerability12; Reen-
trancy - Bank and ProductVote that insecurely allow recursive Ether withdrawal and
multiple-voting at the cost of a single vote respectively; DoS - SimulationKotET
which embeds the King-of-the-Ether-Throne (KotET)13 DoS vulnerability. The main-
net contracts are: BECToken (Overﬂow), KotET (Dos), The DAO14 (Reentrancy),
SpankPay15 (Reentrancy), PrivateBank16 (Reentrancy) and Ammbr17 (Overﬂow).
6.2. Results
Exploit transaction detection.
Table 2 illustrates the detection results of exploit
transactions targeting the synthetic contracts at both the EVM and block levels. For
each vulnerability, a session of transactions was submitted, consisting of both benign
and exploit transactions. Benign transactions comprise vulnerable smart contract de-
ployment and subsequently bring them to a state that renders them appealing for ex-
ploitation, e.g. setting up products and votes in ProductVote or the highest bidder in
SimulationKotET. Further transactions are sent to the server as background noise in
parallel to exploit transactions, enabling a realistic block mining process. The case of
TargetUnderflow is quite particular. It represents the case where an underﬂow results
in a storage variable that is propagated to other variables in the same storage, with all
transactions ending up being exploits. As such, the benign transaction count varies per
smart contract.
Notably, no false positives (FP) were registered in either case, while the EVM-
level returned fully accurate detection in all cases i.e. the True Positives (TP) equaled
the actual number of exploit transactions, and there were no FP or false negatives
(FN). Nevertheless, the block-level missed out on four malicious transactions target-
ing SimulationBECToken. Three of them were missed since the transactions were
11https://gitlab.com/simonjaquilina/etherclue/-/tree/master/datasets
12https://peckshield.medium.com/alert-new-batchoverflow-bug-in-multiple-erc20-
smart-contracts-cve-2018-10299-511067db6536
13https://www.kingoftheether.com/postmortem.html
14https://www.coindesk.com/understanding-dao-hack-journalists
15https://medium.com/spankchain/we-got-spanked-what-we-know-so-far-d5ed3a0f38fe
16https://www.reddit.com/r/ethdev/comments/7x5rwr/trickedbyahoneypotcontractorbeatenby/
17https://medium.com/coinmonks/an-inspection-on-ammbr-amr-bug-a53b4050d52, https://
4hou.win/wordpress/?p=21704
28
Table 2: Exploit transaction detection at the EVM and Block-level IoCs.
†-Over/underﬂow ‡-DoS ⋆-Reentrancy
Contract Account
TXs
TP
FP
FN
Blocks
TP
FP
FN
No.
EVM
EVM
EVM
No.
Block
Block
Block
Bank⋆
82
6
0
0
42
3
0
0
DelayedUnderflow†
23
11
0
0
22
11
0
0
ProductVote⋆
115
20
0
0
38
15
0
0
SimulationBECToken†
56
12
0
0
25
4
0
4
SimulationKotET‡
151
4
0
0
24
4
0
0
TargetUnderflow†
20
20
0
0
20
20
0
0
internal ones, and their information is not retained at the block level (i.e. by β) that is
investigated. The remaining transaction was missed since the affected storage variable
was overridden by a subsequent update in the same block, occluding the attack side-
effect in question. It is noteworthy to mention that these limitations were exposed by
our approach aiming to maximise variation of blockchain content rather than limiting
experimentation solely to currently available mainnet transactions.
Performance. We measured EtherClue’s performance in terms of investigation work-
ﬂow duration for gradual increases in contract size. The contract size varies in terms
of instruction counts, bound to affect EVM-level IoC detectors due to an increase in
small-steps, and storage size, bound to affect block-level IoC detectors when fetching
contract storage. For the former, we modiﬁed DelayedUnderflow.sol with additional
ADD instructions (serving as a NOP) until we reached the 2 million gas unit utilization
mark, far exceeding typical transaction trace size (including the internal calls). For the
latter, we took a similar approach with TargetUnderflow.sol, this time by making
use of an mapping(uint=>uint) storage variable, conveniently allowing one of its
functions to add a key/value pair at each invocation. In both cases, we do not factor in
the network latency portions as part of the processing times since they are the same for
both the EVM and block-level IoC detectors. Moreover, we did not apply any paral-
lelisation or further optimisations in EtherClue’s implementation, leaving this task for
future research. In fact, the lack of parallelisation, illustrates the efﬁcacy of our pro-
posed solution since the results can be linearly improved, in terms of time, using more
cores.
Figure 6 (upper) shows how an increase in the instruction count, as expected, only
affects the EVM-level. However, the slow-down can be mitigated by the custom tracer
mode. Whenever cached entries can be used, the slow-down can be mitigated even
further. In any case, the increase in processing time is linear. On the other hand,
Block-level IoCs are slowed down by an increase in contract storage size, as shown in
Figure 6 (lower). In this case, we did not bother with the custom tracer mode since
the processing times for local modes remained constant. Once again, results demon-
strate that caching can drastically decrease processing time while the slow-down is
linear.
Contract size varied in terms of instruction counts, bound to affect EVM-
level IoC detectors due to an increase in small-steps and storage size, bound to affect
block-level IoC detectors when fetching contract storage. For the former, we modi-
ﬁed DelayedUnderflow.sol with additional ADD instructions (serving as a NOP) un-
til we reached the 2 million gas unit utilization mark, far exceeding typical transaction
29
trace size (including the internal calls). For the latter, we took a similar approach with
TargetUnderflow.sol, this time by making use of an mapping(uint=>uint) stor-
age variable, conveniently allowing one of its functions to add a key/value pair at each
invocation. In both cases, we do not factor in the network latency portions as part of
the processing time, since they are the same for both the EVM and block-level IoC
detectors. Moreover, we did not apply any parallelisation or further optimisations in
EtherClue’s implementation, leaving this task for future research.
21
42
63
84
105
210
420
630
10−2
10−1
100
101
No. EVM instructions - K
Time (s)
EVM-Local-NoCache
EVM-Local-Cache
EVM-CustomTracer
Block-NoCache
Block-Cache
(a) Performance analysis for a gradual increase in contract size in terms of instructions.
0.5
1
2
4
8
16
32
65
131
262
10−3
10−1
101
103
Storage size - Kb
Time (s)
EVM-Local-NoCache
EVM-Local-Cache
Block-NoCache
Block-Cache
(b) Performance analysis for a gradual increase in contract size in terms of storage
Figure 6: Performance analysis for a gradual increase in contract size.
Practicality. Table 3 shows detection/duration details of the four mainnet case studies
30
Table 3: Ethereum mainnet case studies (EVM-level detection).
†-Overﬂow ‡-DoS ⋆-Reentrancy
Contract
Date
Block
Blocks
TX
TX
TP
FP
Duration
Range
No.
Full
Relevant
(s)
BECToken†
22/04/18
5482796-5488697
5902
748858
17
1
0
113
Ammbr†
07/07/18
5918554-5924373
5820
478209
20
1
0
9
KotET‡
07/02/16
964910-969996
5087
14264
9
2
0
3
TheDAO⋆
17/06/16
1717562-1723410
5849
66558
5666
448
0
1838
SpankPay⋆
07/10/18
6467090-6473330
6241
497767
201
7
0
172
PrivateBank⋆
30/01/18
5000001-6000000
1000000
125256429
5
2
0
3
-20/07/18
(column 1) conducted over ArchiveNode using the EVM-level IoC detector in custom
tracer mode. Based on the result attained using the synthetic accounts, this conﬁg-
uration provides the best option for effectiveness and performance. The EVM-level
IoC detector used the Blockchair connector to retrieve all internal transactions result-
ing from external ones that belong to the chosen block range. Columns 2-4 show the
attack date range, followed by the block ranges and their corresponding number of
blocks. In all cases, these comprise all the blocks mined in the date range. This range
includes just the ﬁrst day of the attack in each case, except for PrivateBank. In the
latter, the related documentation did not specify when the incident occurred. The ﬁfth
column shows the full external transaction count included in that block range. Column
6 shows the number of those (external) transactions actually considered to be rele-
vant by the IoC detector. For BECToken, given that the vulnerability is located in the
batchTransfer() public function, which is never called internally by the smart con-
tract itself, we investigated all external transactions calling batchTransfer() directly,
or indirectly via an internal transaction. As for Ammbr, a similar ﬁlter was not appli-
cable so we considered all transactions targeting the vulnerable smart contract. In the
case of KotET, all transactions targeting its address are considered, since any of them
could result in an internal call that reverts unexpectedly. For TheDAO, SpankPay and
PrivateBank, the IoC detector considers all external transactions, targeting any smart
contract address, with at least one internal transaction targeting their own address.
The results conﬁrm the efﬁcacy of EVM-level detection in the case of synthetic
contracts. TP and FP were computed through manual veriﬁcation of all ﬂagged trans-
actions using EtherScan18. In the case of BECtoken and Ammbr, only one transaction
was ﬂagged in each case, coinciding with the transaction hashes found in their corre-
sponding investigation reports. For KotET, we checked that the ﬂagged transactions
had errors (reverted with an out-of-gas exception) but were still completed. As for the
TheDao and SpankPay we checked that the detected transactions had multiple internal
message calls to TheDarkDAO (attacker’s source account). As seen in the state-of-the-
art [27], in the lack of appropriate ground truth, false negatives could no be accounted
for in a precise manner. However, for TheDAO, SpankPay and PrivateBank, we con-
ﬁrmed that EtherClue was able to detect all exploit transactions detected by Sereum
[28]. Duration times include the entire period as of when the EtherClue orchestrator
18https://etherscan.io/
31
is invoked with the given block range until all transaction processing terminate. Even
though EVM-level processing can end up being time-consuming due to large traces,
results show that the investigation duration times remain practical throughout the case
studies. As already discussed, the time taken to investigate a single transaction depends
on contract sizes, both in terms of instruction counts and storage sizes (see Figure 6).
Moreover, the total investigation time is impacted by the total number of transac-
tions considered relevant for the case in hand. Taking the case of the TheDAO, which is
by far the most expensive among the four case studies, a non-parallel implementation
of EtherClue can process a block in 0.3s. This is already faster than the rate at which
a new block is currently mined in mainnet, falling in the 10-20s range19, and there-
fore implying that EtherClue can even be deployed as a real-time detector of exploit
transactions.
Comparison with state of the art. As described in Section 1, EtherClue’s scope com-
plements smart contract-centric vulnerability detection tools with a transaction-centric
one intended for incident response. In this respect, TxSpector [27], Sereum [28] and
DEFIER [29] fall into this category, presenting candidate comparison targets. However,
one of the main issues of this research topic is that it lacks a standardised framework to
leverage a sound comparison between the state of the art methods. The main implica-
tions, also mentioned in the literature [27], are: the lack of comprehensive ground truth
beyond the transaction hashes detected and manually followed up by individual efforts
and the availability of openly available rules/analysis routines.
Nevertheless, given that TxSpector’s rulesets are openly available, while the trans-
actions detected by Sereum are available in a properly labelled way, we are in a position
to compare EtherClue’s EVM-level IoCs with TxSpector based on ruleset deﬁnition
and to cross-check the detected reentrancy exploit transactions with Sereum’s. No
form of comparisons with DEFIER is yet possible since, ﬁrstly, DEFIER requires a set
of seed transactions to be made available, something that EtherClue does not assume,
while the notion of an attack transaction in DEFIER goes beyond strictly that of ex-
ploit transactions to also include the entire attack kill-chain. Moreover, block-level IoC
comparison is not possible since none of the existing tools provide it. We expand fur-
ther on the requirements for a standardised framework for sound and fair comparison
in the ensuing discussion (Section 6.3).
We start by comparing ruleset deﬁnition between EtherClue and TxSpector. There-
fore, for EtherClue we consider its IoC rules and for TxSpector, its detection rules.
Taking the DoS with (unexpected) revert as a case study, Listing 6 shows TxSpector’s
corresponding detection rule. Its detection engine is implemented using the Souffl´e
high-performance Datalog query tool. Control and data ﬂow dependencies, such as op-
code sequences and information ﬂow, are extracted from transactions traces and pop-
ulate a knowledge base, in turn, queried using relational logic rules. This declarative
approach is a strong point for TxSpector; however, it is clear from this example that
this tool is intended primarily for users knowledgeable of program analysis. Ultimately,
this is the same approach used for static code analysis but adapted to work on runtime
traces. In Listing 6, line 7 extracts all CALL opcodes, while line 8 checks whether their
19see https://etherscan.io/blocks
32
return values are eventually used by a JUMPI opcode (a conditional jump). Yet, the
JUMPI opcode may not immediately follow its corresponding CALL, nor act directly on
the returned value itself. Therefore, the rule on lines 1-4 is required to capture this
additional complication, using further control/data ﬂow dependencies.
Listing 6: TxSpector detection rule for DoS.
1 jumpiDep ( jumpiIdx ,
jumpiDepth ,
depIdx ,
depVal )
: −
2
op JUMPI (
,
,
jumpiCond ,
jumpiIdx ,
jumpiDepth ,
) ,
3
jumpiIdx > depIdx ,
4
depends ( jumpiCond ,
depVal ) .
5
6 UncheckedCall ( args )
: −
7
op CALL (
,
,
,
c a l l R e t ,
c a l l I d x ,
1 ,
) ,
8
! jumpiDep ( jumpiIdx ,
1 ,
c a l l I d x ,
c a l l R e t ) .
In EtherClue’s case, given IoCs are deﬁned as attack side-effects, it only requires
reasoning about individual EVM-level steps. Furthermore, EtherClue is meant to com-
plement vulnerability detectors and so can avail from known vulnerability locations
inside the compiled EVM code. Starting with Deﬁnition 4.21, the IoC rule veriﬁes
whether: i) the current opcode is a CALL, ii) it falls within the vulnerability location,
and iii) the return value is 0. These three checks are simpler and more elegant than
TxSpector’s detection rule (Listing 6), which is burdened with ascertaining whether
the EVM trace being analyzed corresponds to a vulnerability. Therefore, EtherClue’s
IoC rules do not have to follow the complex control/data ﬂow dependency analysis
which impedes TxSpector’s rules.
Notably, the IoC’s implementation is not restricted to a speciﬁc programming
paradigm either. The current EtherClue prototype implements IoC rules in JavaScript,
an example fragment of which is shown in Listing 7. arStack on line 2 is an instance
of the call context tracker described in Section 5, and which is used to step through
the transaction trace while keeping track of call-depths and activation records corre-
sponding to internal transactions. Recall from Deﬁnition 4.2 that the activation record
includes all runtime information, encompassing stack/memory content, EVM code and
the program counter. arStack is therefore central for the IoC rule veriﬁcation (i.e., the
three previously stated checks related to Deﬁnition 4.21) performed in lines 3, 7 and
9. Finally, the callback() in line 10 ﬂags the transaction as an exploit. This occurs
whenever all checks succeed as per the IoC template in Deﬁnition 4.6.
Listing 7: EtherClue IoC rule for DoS.
1 . . .
2
var
p r e v i o u s S t e p = arSt a c k . a c t i v e ( ) . nthStep ( 1 ) ;
3
i f ( p r e v i o u s S t e p . op === Op .CALL) {
4
var
s t a c k A f t e r = s t e p . s t a c k ;
5
var
r = BigInt ( s t a c k A f t e r [ s t a c k A f t e r . length −1] ,
16) ;
6
// Check if the result is an IoC for DoS.
7
i f ( r . eq ( 0 ) ) {
8
t r a c e . s t r u c t L o g s . forEach ( function ( step2 ,
i ) {
9
i f ( step2 . pc == 940
| |
step2 . pc == 941) {
10
c a l l b a c k ( arS t a c k . a c t i v e ( ) . id ,
tx ,
previousStep ,
index ,
""
) ;
11
}
12
}) ;
33
13
}
14
}
15 . . .
The main observation here is that it should be simpler to implement a series of checks
on the pre/post states of EVM instructions rather than deﬁning vulnerabilities using
program analysis. Furthermore, EtherClue’s IoCs can also be used at the block level,
something that TxSpector does not provide. We elaborate further on this point in the
upcoming discussion.
Another important aspect that prevents a fair comparison is that, for instance,
TxSpector discards transactions not processed according to a timeout threshold. There-
fore, the sample set may vary when comparing with other tools such as EtherClue, since
the latter analyses all the transactions and is not restricted by performance thresholds.
While we believe that the detection tools’ performance is relevant, enabling a timeout
requires further discussion since individuals may not care about the time analysis if
their losses are enormous.
Finally, we further elaborate on the outcomes of TheDAO experiment. Accord-
ing to the original reports, Sereum ﬂagged 2112 transactions whilst TxSpector ﬂagged
2008. EtherClue was able to ﬂag 2208, since it identiﬁed 96 exploit transactions that
ended up with an exception, and therefore failed to update the blockchain state. Ac-
cording to Sereum documentation, it does not consider non-successful exploit transac-
tions, yet during our analysis, we found out that 7 of such transactions were included in
their outcomes, probably due to a bug/error. The latter means that EtherClue achieved
the same performance as Sereum (i.e., a total of 2015 transactions if we remove the
non-successful ones), which is a tool focused on this speciﬁc exploit.
6.3. Discussion
Our research and experimental ﬁndings provide some rather interesting insights
about blockchain forensics and the corresponding IoCs. In the following paragraphs
we discuss their main points.
EVM-level IoCs provide the best option. EVM-level IoCs can carry a considerably
larger computational load as transaction traces get larger. This property of EtherClue
can be emphasised for transactions involving multiple internal message calls. On the
other hand, this is not an issue for block-level IoCs since contract storage size is inde-
pendent of the number of executed internal transactions. Nonetheless, one should take
into consideration that such IoCs can generalise over an entire exploit class. Moreover,
they can speciﬁcally ﬂag exploit transactions within their block, and their effectiveness
cannot undermined neither by the ‘unavailable internal transactions’ nor by the ‘oc-
cluded side-effect’ issues of the block level. Therefore, EVM-level IoC-centric inves-
tigations can be more effective. While such IoCs may impose a much larger computa-
tional load, our extended experiments illustrate that the cost is tolerable and applicable
in real-world scenarios. Beyond a pre-processing step involving transaction tracing, a
larger number of analysis steps is also required due to the small-step execution seman-
tics. Yet, the mainnet case studies show that processing times remain practical even for
transactions that consume the largest possible amount of gas.
Block-level IoCs can still be of value. During investigations in which response times
are critical, the lightweight nature of IoCs at this level may still render them useful in
34
the form of an ‘approximate’ triage-pass. Albeit not fully accurate, this pass can still
help with the quick identiﬁcation of a sub-set of exploit transactions, especially given
that IoCs at this level err on false negatives rather than false positives.
Automated IoC deﬁnition/code generation.
The potential value of a triage-pass
based on block-level IoCs, however, is undermined by the fact that they are contract-
speciﬁc, and IoC deﬁnition followed by IoC Rule implementation can be time-
consuming. Yet, the formal semantics upon which IoCs are deﬁned can provide a
solid basis for automation. More precisely, the symbolic execution of a sample exploit
transaction could provide the basis for automation by generating all the states associ-
ated with successful exploitation and from which to derive IoCs directly in code form.
Given that symbolic execution does not require concrete inputs, this enables the gen-
eration of IoCs in a generic manner through symbolic inputs. Furthermore, symbolic
execution engines for the EVM, e.g. Manticore [42], are already available.
A standardised framework for comparison. Ultimately, given the limited way we
were able to compare EtherClue with existing tools so far, further enhancements re-
quire the support of clear comparisons for proper evaluation. Speciﬁcally, we encoun-
tered substantial difﬁculties in making use of datasets, at least beyond the limited one
provided by Sereum [28], due to the lack of properly labelled ground truth and har-
monized deﬁnitions of what constitutes an exploit transaction, amongst others. There-
fore, we believe that studying standardised criteria to measure the quality of the tools
with uniﬁed benchmarks and metrics is a promising research line in its own right.
From our own experience, we propose that such a framework should at least cover: i)
Tool categorisation in terms of which modes they can operate in, i.e. contract, block,
transaction, or individual EVM instruction levels; ii) In the case of tools supporting a
contract-level operation mode, whether they require the source code or whether they
can work with just the decompiled bytecode; iii) Make the ruleset/analysis routines
available for comparison, at least in object form, but more importantly highlighting the
exact scope of their detection; iv) A ground-truth dataset that uses different labels for
attack transactions at the different stages of the attack kill-chains, speciﬁcally identify-
ing exploit transactions as only those that directly exercise a security bug; v) Finally,
enhance all exploit transaction labels with related block-level, internal message call
and instruction-level annotations.
7. Conclusions
In this work, we showed that IoCs deﬁned over the side-effects of Ethereum smart
contract execution is an effective way to identify exploit transactions. The primary con-
tribution is EtherClue, a DFIR tool that complements vulnerability detectors by post-
factum exploit transaction detection. A model that abstracts smart contract execution
underpins the method for deﬁning IoCs, and which in turn builds upon a formalism;
previously used for symbolic smart contract execution, to ﬁt the needs of digital foren-
sics. Experimentation with common exploit classes demonstrates the effectiveness and
real-world practicality of EtherClue compared with other state-of-the-art approaches.
Results point towards deﬁning IoCs at the EVM level, rather than the block level since
IoCs can generalise over exploit classes and achieve better precision.
35
Future work will focus on deﬁning further IoCs for the ever-growing list of ex-
ploit classes, along with further experimentation on mainnet. This effort will, however,
ﬁrstly require a parallel implementation of EtherClue IoC detectors. This optimised
implementation will also be useful to experiment further with the idea of applying
EtherClue real-time detection, and perhaps even for early detection inside transaction
pools. Deriving IoCs automatically from exploit samples is also a possibility given
EtherClue’s operational semantics foundation. Finally, by integrating EtherClue with
data mining tools, e.g. DEFIER, and blockchain analytics, e.g. Bloxy, it will be possi-
ble to automate the process of forensic timeline analysis, providing investigators with
a complete insight into an incident with minimal manual effort. Moreover, we argue
that a standardised framework for tool comparison can be a catalyst for advancing the
state of the art in Ethereum forensics and blockchain technologies in general.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the European Commission under the Horizon 2020
Programme (H2020), as part of the LOCARD (https://locard.eu) (Grant Agree-
ment no. 832735) project.
The content of this article does not reﬂect the ofﬁcial opinion of the European
Union. Responsibility for the information and views expressed therein lies entirely
with the authors.
References
[1] N. Atzei, M. Bartoletti, T. Cimoli, A survey of attacks on Ethereum smart con-
tracts (SoK), in: International conference on principles of security and trust,
Springer, 2017, pp. 164–186.
[2] H. Chen, M. Pendleton, L. Njilla, S. Xu, A survey on Ethereum systems security:
Vulnerabilities, attacks, and defenses, ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 53 (3)
(2020) 1–43.
[3] D. Branch,
dApps:
Beyond germs transmitted by handshakes,
https:
//blog.securityevaluators.com/dapps-beyond-germs-transmitted-
by-handshakes-edb48b468922, accessed: 2021-01-12 (2019).
[4] G. Prisco, Understanding the DAO attack, https://bitcoinmagazine.com/
articles/the-dao-raises-more-than-million-in-world-s-largest-
crowdfunding-to-date-1463422191, accessed: 2021-01-12 (2016).
[5] K. O’hara, Smart contracts-dumb idea, IEEE Internet Computing 21 (2) (2017)
97–101.
[6] Y. Smaragdakis, Ethereum Pawn Stars: “$5.7M in hard assets? Best I can do
is $2.3M”, https://medium.com/dedaub/ethereum-pawn-stars-5-7m-in-
hard-assets-best-i-can-do-is-2-3m-b93604be503e, accessed: 2021-01-
12 (2021).
36
[7] L. Luu, D.-H. Chu, H. Olickel, P. Saxena, A. Hobor, Making smart contracts
smarter, in: Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and
communications security, 2016, pp. 254–269.
[8] N. Grech, L. Brent, B. Scholz, Y. Smaragdakis, Gigahorse: thorough, declarative
decompilation of smart contracts, in: 2019 IEEE/ACM 41st International Confer-
ence on Software Engineering (ICSE), IEEE, 2019, pp. 1176–1186.
[9] G. Grieco, W. Song, A. Cygan, J. Feist, A. Groce, Echidna: effective, usable,
and fast fuzzing for smart contracts, in: Proceedings of the 29th ACM SIGSOFT
International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 2020, pp. 557–560.
[10] P. Tsankov, A. Dan, D. Drachsler-Cohen, A. Gervais, F. Buenzli, M. Vechev,
Securify: Practical security analysis of smart contracts, in: Proceedings of the
2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
2018, pp. 67–82.
[11] S. Kalra, S. Goel, M. Dhawan, S. Sharma, Zeus: Analyzing safety of smart con-
tracts., in: NDSS, 2018, pp. 1–12.
[12] S. Grossman, I. Abraham, G. Golan-Gueta, Y. Michalevsky, N. Rinetzky, M. Sa-
giv, Y. Zohar, Online detection of effectively callback free objects with applica-
tions to smart contracts, Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages
2 (POPL) (2017) 1–28.
[13] B. Jiang, Y. Liu, W. Chan, ContractFuzzer: Fuzzing smart contracts for vulner-
ability detection, in: 2018 33rd IEEE/ACM International Conference on Auto-
mated Software Engineering (ASE), IEEE, 2018, pp. 259–269.
[14] C. Liu, H. Liu, Z. Cao, Z. Chen, B. Chen, B. Roscoe, Reguard: ﬁnding reentrancy
bugs in smart contracts, in: 2018 IEEE/ACM 40th International Conference on
Software Engineering: Companion (ICSE-Companion), IEEE, 2018, pp. 65–68.
[15] D.-Y. Kao, S.-C. Hsiao, The dynamic analysis of wannacry ransomware, in:
2018 20th International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology
(ICACT), IEEE, 2018, pp. 159–166.
[16] FireEye,
SMB
exploited:
WannaCry
use
of
“EternalBlue”,
https:
//www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2017/05/smb-exploited-
wannacry-use-of-eternalblue.html, Accessed: 2021-06-28 (2017).
[17] G. Wood, et al., Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction ledger,
Ethereum project yellow paper 151 (2014) (2014) 1–32.
[18] V. Buterin, Ethereum white paper, https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/,
accessed: 2021-01-12 (2020).
[19] Ethereum, Solidity, https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest, accessed:
2021-01-12 (2020).
37
[20] Ethervm, EVM opcode reference, https://ethervm.io, accessed: 2021-30-06
(2021).
[21] Go-Ethereum,
EVM
tracing,
https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/dapp/
tracing, accessed: 2021-01-12 (2020).
[22] I. Grishchenko, M. Maffei, C. Schneidewind, A semantic framework for the se-
curity analysis of ethereum smart contracts, in: International Conference on Prin-
ciples of Security and Trust, Springer, 2018, pp. 243–269.
[23] A. Hern´andez Cerezo, Analysis techniques for smart contracts: generation of
complete control ﬂow graphs (2020).
[24] T. Cook, A. Latham, J. H. Lee, DappGuard: Active monitoring and defense for
solidity smart contracts, Retrieved July 18 (2017) 2018.
[25] S. Farrugia, J. Ellul, G. Azzopardi, Detection of illicit accounts over the Ethereum
blockchain, Expert Systems with Applications 150 (2020) 113318.
[26] N. Kumar, A. Singh, A. Handa, S. K. Shukla, Detecting malicious accounts on
the Ethereum blockchain with supervised learning, in: International Symposium
on Cyber Security Cryptography and Machine Learning, Springer, 2020, pp. 94–
109.
[27] M. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Z. Lin, TXPTECTOR: Uncovering attacks in
Ethereum from transactions, in: 29th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX
Security 20), 2020, pp. 2775–2792.
[28] M. Rodler, W. Li, G. O. Karame, L. Davi, Sereum: Protecting existing smart
contracts against re-entrancy attacks, arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.05934 (2018).
[29] L. Su, X. Shen, X. Du, X. Liao, X. Wang, L. Xing, B. Liu, Evil under the sun:
Understanding and discovering attacks on ethereum decentralized applications,
in:
30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21), USENIX
Association, Vancouver, B.C., 2021.
URL
https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity21/
presentation/su
[30] S. Bragagnolo, M. Marra, G. Polito, E. G. Boix, Towards scalable blockchain
analysis, in: 2019 IEEE/ACM 2nd International Workshop on Emerging Trends
in Software Engineering for Blockchain (WETSEB), IEEE, 2019, pp. 1–7.
[31] L. Wu, S. Wu, Y. Zhou, R. Li, Z. Wang, X. Luo, C. Wang, K. Ren, EthScope:
A transaction-centric security analytics framework to detect malicious smart con-
tracts on Ethereum, arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.08278 (2020).
[32] M. Wohrer, U. Zdun, Smart contracts: security patterns in the Ethereum ecosys-
tem and solidity, in: 2018 International Workshop on Blockchain Oriented Soft-
ware Engineering (IWBOSE), IEEE, 2018, pp. 2–8.
38
[33] ConsenSys, Ethereum smart contract best practices, https://consensys.
github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/general_philosophy/, ac-
cessed: 2021-01-12 (2021).
[34] M. Rodler, W. Li, G. O. Karame, L. Davi, Evmpatch: Timely and automated
patching of ethereum smart contracts, arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.00341 (2020).
[35] Z. Cheng, X. Hou, R. Li, Y. Zhou, X. Luo, J. Li, K. Ren, Towards a ﬁrst step
to understand the cryptocurrency stealing attack on Ethereum, in: 22nd inter-
national Symposium on research in Attacks, Intrusions and Defenses ({RAID}
2019), 2019, pp. 47–60.
[36] C. Colombo, J. Ellul, G. J. Pace, Contracts over smart contracts: Recovering from
violations dynamically, in: International Symposium on Leveraging Applications
of Formal Methods, Springer, 2018, pp. 300–315.
[37] M. Weber, G. Domeniconi, J. Chen, D. K. I. Weidele, C. Bellei, T. Robinson,
C. E. Leiserson, Anti-money laundering in bitcoin: Experimenting with graph
convolutional networks for ﬁnancial forensics, arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.02591
(2019).
[38] L. Zarpala, F. Casino, A blockchain-based forensic model for ﬁnancial crime in-
vestigation: the embezzlement scenario, Digital Finance (2021) 1–32.
[39] A. H. Lone, R. N. Mir, Forensic-chain: Blockchain based digital forensics chain
of custody with PoC in Hyperledger composer, Digital Investigation 28 (2019)
44–55.
[40] L. Ahmad, S. Khanji, F. Iqbal, F. Kamoun, Blockchain-based chain of custody:
towards real-time tamper-proof evidence management, in: Proceedings of the
15th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, 2020, pp.
1–8.
[41] ConsenSys,
Ethereum
smart
contract
best
practices:
Known
attacks,
https://consensys.github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/
known_attacks/, accessed: 2021-01-12 (2020).
[42] M. Mossberg, F. Manzano, E. Hennenfent, A. Groce, G. Grieco, J. Feist, T. Brun-
son, A. Dinaburg, Manticore: A user-friendly symbolic execution framework for
binaries and smart contracts, in: 2019 34th IEEE/ACM International Conference
on Automated Software Engineering (ASE), IEEE, 2019, pp. 1186–1189.
39
